Welcome back. In this lesson, we will install Ghidra MCP. This is the website for Ghidra MCP.
Besides that, you will also need to install Ghidra itself. If you haven't done so,
here's where you can get Ghidra. First, let us download Ghidra MCP. Then, download Ghidra.
We will also create a folder called ghidra underscore mcp. Go to the downloads folder
and unzip Ghidra. Then rename it to make it shorter. Copy the rename folder and
paste it in the folder program files. We will now create a shortcut on the
desktop. Enter the folder and right click and drag the Ghidra run file to the
desktop. Then select create shortcut here. Now we will assign an icon to it. Right
click and select properties. Click on change icon. Then navigate to the support
folder and select the Ghidra icon image. Ghidra also needs Java in order to run. We first
check if we have Java. Since I don't have it, I will search for Java Adoptium. I now
download installer for the Tamurin JDK for Windows. Now I run the installer. Make sure
you install for all users of this machine. Also make sure you set or override Java home
variable. Now, we start Ghidra to see if it works. Next, we cut the Ghidra MCP and put it in the Ghidra
MCP folder we created earlier. Then, we unzip it. Note that there is another zip file and also a
Python script but we won't use this Python script. Instead, go and download the improved version from
the resource section for this lecture, put it in the same folder. The original script is out of date
it uses SSE endpoint but the version 3 uses MCP endpoint and also
streamable HTTP. This is the current best practice for MCP communication. Now we
cut all files and put them into the parent folder and delete the old folder.
Next we need to install the Ghidra MCP zip file into Ghidra. We start Ghidra then
Then click on file, install extensions, then click on the add icon, navigate to the folder
containing the MCP zip file.
It will say extension version mismatch.
Click install anyway.
Then confirm Ghidra MCP is installed and checked.
Restart Ghidra.
Create a new folder called Ghidra underscore project.
Create a new non-shared project.
Navigate to new folder and select it.
it Crackmes. We will now load a Crackme from the practice folder, select cmdline
and drag it to Ghidra, then drag the 64-bit Cragme to the dragon icon to
start analysis. It will detect the new plugin and ask to configure. Click yes,
click the checkbox for the MCP plugin, then analyze the Crackme. Select Windows
Use PE x86 propagate external parameters then click analyze.
Keep a lookout on bottom right corner for the progress.
You can also configure the new plugin by clicking on file, configure, select developer, configure.
Make sure the Ghidra MCP plugin is checked.
Now we check if the MCP port is opened.
a cmd line terminal and type the netstat-tan command, you should see port 8080.
This port is coming from the ghidra plugin.
We will use the bridge script to connect to this port, but we need python for that.
So we check if we have python.
If we don't have it, you can download it here and install it.
After installing python, we want to create a new python virtual environment for the bridge
script to run.
We open cmd terminal in the ghidra-mcp folder and type this command.
The new virtual environment folder will be called ghidra-env.
To activate it, we run the activate command which is in the scripts folder.
To confirm the virtual environment has been activated, you should see this.
We will install all our Python modules for Ghidra inside this virtual environment.
The first thing we do is to upgrade pip. Next, we install fastmcp and requests.
Now we run our bridge script. Make sure you run version 3.
Next, we open a command line terminal to check the ports.
We find a new port 8081. Port 8080 comes from the Ghidra plugin.
Port 8081 comes from the bridge script.
In practice, the bridge scripts connects to port 8080 and spawns a new port 8081 for communication
with OpenClaw.
Now let me close everything and show you the sequence of firing up everything from scratch.
First we run Ghidra.
Then we analyze the crack me.
Next we check to confirm port 8080 is started.
Then we go to our Github MCP folder and activate the Python virtual environment.
Make sure your virtual environment has started.
Then start the bridge script.
Confirm port 8081 is running.
That's it.
Now we are ready to connect to OpenClaw.
In the next lesson, I will show you how to do that.
Thanks for watching.